{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c14542\c14542\c14505;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Tracy King: Today's webinar is to emphasize the planning early for data-sharing will make it much easier at submission time. We hope that you walk away with an understanding of the next steps and know what you need to do to contact us throughout the data submission process. This webinar overlaps where the data harmonization webinar left off and is offered around the to submission Cycles. This training focuses on the first tasks that are expected to be completed early after Grant award II.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 NIMH and I actually started as the National Database for autism research or end are in 2006 and originally focused autism related data collected through grants funded by several NIH institutes. NIMH further supported the importance of data sharing and expanded this expectation to most human subjects grants that it funded in 2014. NDA will communicate with you throughout the entire Grant cycle to keep you on track and to provide you with helpful information to do this. I encourage you to view these terms and conditions as soon as possible so that you know the expectations and you reduce any misunderstandings.\
\
DSA is a policy document that is required prior to being allowed to submit any data. It is defined as an expectation on the NDA sharing terms and conditions. It can hold up your project later with the Eds a tool you can use to populate review and submit the data submission agreement. NDA collection is a virtual container for data related specifically to your project grant information.\
\
In order to assign collection privileges to your staff you need to login yourself to add another user to your collection. There are three types of privileges that you can assign to a user submission allows for uploading data query gives read-only Privileges. admin is both submission and quiri privilege plus the ability to give others privileges so that they can set up date expected for example.\
\
Grant recipients must include language in the informed consent form agreeing that date and supporting documentation submitted to NDA may be accessed and used broadly by approved users for research sample consent language is available on our website to help researchers. It is outside the purview of NDA staff to review informed consent documents related to consent is the good the global unique identifier or goo is an ID number that is required for each subject while they do it is based on personally identifiable information or pii.\
\
The date expected list is the primary tracking mechanism for your data submission project. It is a list of all the data that you are collecting with the associated subject counts and initial submission and sharing dates for each item. It provides a common understanding of what is to be submitted and when but it also allows for flexibility in the event that your projects timeframe changes. You can change the date expected listed anytime when creating your data expect.\
\
In our next webinar on data harmonization we'll go over how to actually use your account to set this up in Greater detail. The NDA data-sharing terms and conditions ND ND a data dictionary will be the most helpful resources to you as you complete your data expected list. If someone like your program officer Where to view the date expected Tab and see only one data item listed they would know that yourData expected list had not yet been completed. The process looks like when when we say you are adding items to the list these items are tied to one or more specific data structures in the data dictionary.\
\
You will want to provide the actual measure and any instructions and scoring algorithms that can help our data definition teamwork on a structure for you. You will then provide a title for the measuring upload the file this could be electronic definition if you created one. Once all the items have been added you'll have a completed list as we showed earlier and you'll be able to come in and update the dates are counts as the project proceeds if changes are needed.\
\
Data cannot be uploaded until corresponding data structure is defined in the data dictionary. Each submission of data has run through a set of automated quality checks that NDA developed. In the interim stick sharing stage your ongoing cumulative data set is shared typically 4 months after submission. The process then repeats biannually over the course of your Grant if you are collecting fmri eye-tracking ohmic c e g e g g or any other type of event based or neural signal recordings data.\
\
When you get to this process and after you've completed your data expected list you will be assigned a data curator to your project who can help you with any of these things if you have any questions again just contact the NBA help desk. The NDA search tool is on her home page as shown with it you can search on text strings across the website content and DEA collections or studies as well as elements and structures in the NBA data dictionary and many other cat the second of these is the NDA query tool to query tool.\
\
NDA facilitates access by all investigators working on a project even before the data have been shared with others. NDA absorbs the cost and there's no charge to submitters or users to access the data. The data wallet is in the private State beta are portable regardless of your location or institutional affiliation. DEA staff have implemented comprehensive backup protocols to ensure that data are never lost. The process can be sped up by using the NDA validation tool and post submission qaqc processes.}