{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 This webinar overlaps where the data organization webinar left off and is offered around the to submission Cycles which are January 15th and July 15th. We hope that you'll walk away with an understanding of how to request permission build queries in Access Data from NDA. We will talk about competition credits and how to get access to data from a specific permission group. We'll also provide an example of using the NBA NBA search tool to look for other information in the NBA.\
\
When ready to query data you should go back to the NDA home page and click on the get data tab. Those with approved access can view detailed subject level data as well as build data packages. Anyone can visit the end a website and use the various query tools to Brown summary and general information on the data. There's data from Labs data from papers that a dictionary you can cry by Concepts or you can quit by Goods. There are currently five methods used to build filters to queries data.\
\
New query filter tool shows you how to make a query and add it to your filter car. If add multiple filters to the car it will reduce the number of subjects available. One way is not necessarily better than the other and can affect the number or subjects or packaging the filter car allow you to edit or clear the selected filters as needed. The tool will use or logic and only returned data that matches all the selections. It will return subjects from both data structures to the cart to the state of structure.\
\
After you have used one or more query tools to add filters to your car for download you'll be able to view and edit filters in the car panel in the upper right hand corner of your page. Clicking packaged Act 2 study will take you to a landing page where you can view the data you currently have returned by a query. This page displays all of the collections that contain subject data that satisfy the only collections in the left panel.\
\
When you create them in. You will receive an email with instructions and how to connect to your database. The easiest way to download your data is by using download manager at. Jnlp file that can be downloaded from the tools tab. On Target have paid which also makes use of NDA tools. We will discuss all three methods to access your data in more detail in the following sections. The final step is to login using your NDA username and password.\
\
Packages are tied to your account and will persist after you have downloaded them. To use computational methods to access date in the cloud you'll need two things. You'll need a list of Esther locations where the data files are located and second you'll needs temporary AWS tokens to obtain the Su locations. The tokens can be generated and downloaded using third-party tools such as Python and curl scripts or you can simply use NDA tools to install the data using the temporary tokens.\
\
Once you have any air tools properly installed you should already have this command line tool pre-installed with it so it's just download CMV. The tools can be installed in any OS and python version so you can work with data directly in the cloud for example from your ec2 instance. The jupyter notebook notebook is available on our page this notebook will allow you to work with NDA Tools in a more interactive format provides the same for download options as the download CMD tool does. It could also serves as a starting point for users to write their own Python scripts using ended tools that will allow them to download data from any age rules.\
\
Under the download section you can use this to download data directly so you just have to run every kernel here. The MTA has a computational credits pilot program which aims to provide an efficient model for scientist to request and receive approval for computational access. We will be happy to answer any questions so we'll wait around are we had a question about showing us again how to add a second layer of the filters we can go back and Replay that at 4 now we will begin the NDA data access webinar.}