{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14526\c14526\c14508;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh9780\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Tracy King: I would like to welcome you to today's Andy a data harmonization webinar a portion of today's webinar will be played using your computer audio. Tracy King: We will be going over now to take the data that you are collecting as part of your NIH Grant and harmonize it with the NDA data standard. Tracy: We are not going to answer all the questions at the end of the webinar so please email us any questions that you have and we will get back to you.\
\
All data in NDA are eventually shared for reuse with the research community. We also have a webinar on how to submit the data itself. We're also going to understand the data harmonization process so how you're going to approach this process. It is an ongoing process of harmonizing your data to allow it to be submitted share to India maximizing its value for reuse and is always most importantly we will understand how to get help how to find more information.\
\
he gooey is an abbreviation for the global unique identifier it's the good itself is a series of alphanumeric characters its letters and numbers. The tool is a piece of software that you download onto your local computer and then run login and use it to create these IDs. The data from the same individual in different potential studies can be provided it can be linked across time and space using this ID without anyone ever having access to or sharing any of their personal information.\
\
At the moment we have these two different data sharing schedules that can be used to determine what dates based on your own projects individual start and end dates. As of January of 2019 these distinctions will disappear and all data will be shared one year after project end date including the first no-cost extension that is for projects starting effective January of 2020.\
\
Clinical assessments essentially these are just spreadsheets ultimately when these data are prepared and they are submitted to NDA they will be most likely in the form of a CSV spreadsheet. The basic sort of default process is that it's ESB Spreadsheet will be uploaded. These clinical assessment data types are the data that consists of the spreadsheet they don't have a source files and then it will have these Associated files the raw data files themselves maybe a dicom file for Imaging likewise fmri will have an Associated spreadsheet.\
\
In this webinar I will show you how to use the NBA's official website to help you understand how to contribute data. I will also show you an example of what what the data will actually look like in your spreadsheets. We will discuss with those mean exactly in detail later and as I said at the beginning it's all you can see is available as our email help desk and then 301-443-3265 is our phone number. We are available during all normal business hours now we are on the East Coast so if time zones are a factor but these are also available.\
\
I like this section overall is a good resource for information on date of submission in general and I would highlight these two pages in particular has good resources for information specifically data harmonization piece of submission. I'm going to log in with my credentials so that I can use my normal NDA username and password to log into that you can create one of those from the homepage and then you just need to make sure you register for the good tool on your profile page after you created your account.\
\
With that I'll highlight how to convert a pseudo goo to a real goo. The tool can also use this tool to create pseudo goos one at a time. In cases where participants decline to provide all of this information while still consenting to have their data shared you need to email NDA help ml to IAH. Gov to check in about that and you also would need to check with the help desk in order to get more than one because this will not do that. If you need many you will need to contact the helpdesk also be used as a placeholder to upload data for participants.\
\
You can search by category one or multiple selections datatype and then apply our reset filter using these buns so this allows you to narrow down the 3,000 data structures that are currently defined. Every project in the every project that shares data through nda's expected to provide this this day to structure page. This is a summary structure that provides you know just one record per subject information that characterizes that subject and then you know when is this is relevant especially in genomic studies degree information.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 There's over three hundred thousand participants who have this structure in the system. The dates that you will see here are going to be probably the First Data submission. If you are getting a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health and you should expect to see in April October Paradigm. AAA the Nationals do velka Hall abuse and alcoholism so this is pretty much Mental Health Data expected July 2019. It's probably not something you're collecting specifically as part of your project.\
\
Once you upload data you won't be able to delete these items anymore but you can edit it in order to change the target enrollment number which is expected to be the final unique count of subjects in that structure. One way to approach this would be to look at your Grant will be your project and determine you know what you're collecting and go to the data dictionary and find a structure that corresponds to all of the instruments.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 The most common questions we get is how do I Define an entirely novel structure in your system for new daytime collecting well-to-do that you would like to admit it expected. You can start by identifying ones that don't exist at all obviously and then adding them as new items. Just get started on adding items today to expected and try to make sure everything's squared away in time for submission in the event that you do have structures that need to be Define from scratch.\
\
When you go into a structure it will look like this you will have this kind of header section and then the structure itself is just as list of elements. The validation tool is going to be checking to try to catch any any mistakes or errors in the use of the standard or or the date it's been entered into these fields now. The required versus recommended status in this required column a column being recommended just means that if you don't have data in that field then the system will not block you from uploading.\
\
Each of the rows is one subject at one time points record and then each column is an element. In each row for an individual's visit or time pulling it will have the data of the value for that visit. This also demonstrates what your what your data will look like if they are longitudinal. The age and month is going that's matching the time passage and then the IDS are the same and each column contains the appropriate data value for the visit. The data is being translated into English using an online translator.\
\
But ultimately this is what your data will look like it will be like this in spreadsheets with the subject ID in the data kind of going out in the columns. If you can configure away on your end to have you know those files results automatically from your own internal capture system that that's something that's people found very positive or or you know manual data entry is kind of a guest of the ultimate fallback position. The key differences are associate files and experiments which of these two columns so first let's deal with Associated files.\
\
The tool as it parses this spreadsheet will automatically go and identify those files and get them. The files need to be located in the directory on your local system the same system as this file. It's basically just as simple as getting the path in the file type element and then let's take a look now at some experiments. Only functional MRI does and then the other experiment types like EEG you know makes sense so on so for that reason experiment ID here is going to be empty for those and in this purported fmri record it will be filled in.\
\
You can copy existing experiments as sort of a base to start from in events where the experiments are very similar. These are designed to be as general as possible to accommodate all different kinds of experiments. It's basically just this form you fill out and as you do so you'll notice it's extensible so if there's software you used that we don't include you can click add new and then select the parent node under what you want to insert this element and then you get a new.\
}